---
author: admin
comments: true
date: 2013-02-12 15:56:53+00:00
layout: post
slug: cisco-aaa
title: Cisco AAA
wordpress_id: 846
categories:
- Cisco
- Networking
tags:
- AAA
- Cisco
- security
- TACACS+
---

Controlling who can play with you networking equipment is somewhat important. If you run the kind of network where you don't care who can log in and lab on your gear then you can probably skip this post. But for the rest of us, I'm going to cover Cisco's AAA features and what good they are to us as network engineers/admins. 

AAA stands for Authentication, Authorization, and Accounting, and is most commonly used to control administrative access to our boxes. Authentication is all about identity; can you who you are by providing the correct password? Authorization is kind of like the hall pass; I know you're allowed in this building, but are you allowed down this hall? And finally Accounting is big brother's spy eye, keeping track of what you're doing and how long you spent doing it. 

Now AAA isn't just used to control admin access, it actually can operate in two types or modes. The first mode is **Character** mode and is used to control remote admin access for line(vty, console) or EXEC mode commands. The other mode is **Packet** mode and is used to control remote network access for things such as VPN or PPP users. AAA can also either local(internal) or external services. Local or internal services use an internal database, while the external service can use either Cisco ACS and TACACS+ or another type of control server using RADIUS. Because AAA and TACACS+ are Cisco systems/protocols they obviously offer more robustness over the standard RADIUS implementations. Most notably, TACACS+ separates all 3 functions of AAA to allow for more granularity while RADIUS combines Authentication and Authorization. Also, TACACS+ encrypts the entire packet body, while RADIUS only encrypts the password attribute portion of a Access-Request packet.

Configuration of AAA is fairly straight forward. You have to enable AAA with the **aaa new-model** global config command, and then specify your TACACS+ servers using the **tacacs-server host <ip> key <password>** global config command. From there you can then enable each facet of AAA as desired. 

To configure login authentication to use all configured TACACS+ servers with a local database as a backup, use the command:
**aaa authentication login default group tacacs+ local**
To configure enable accounting to use all configured TACACS+ servers with the configured enable secret as a backup, use the command:
**aaa authentication enable default group tacacs+ enable**

I would go into a little detail regarding authorization, but unless you have a teams that are only allowed to issue certain commands, such as a NOC only being allowed to configure or reset certain settings, then I feel that authorization is useless. You can Google to the Cisco docs if you think you really need this feature.

To configure accounting of sessions and commands entered to a TACACS+ server, use the commands:
**aaa accounting exec default start-stop group tacacs+**
**aaa accounting commands 0 default start-stop group tacacs+**
**aaa accounting commands 15 default start-stop group tacacs+**
(We don't use any any privilege levels other than 0 or 15, but if you wish you can specify any value from 0-15).

So there you have a high-level overview of Cisco's AAA features. There is a lot of granularity in the options and I strongly suggest you read the documentation if you're looking for a specific feature or option. I mean, it's not really a blog post if I just re-write Cisco's docs on AAA. 
